[Security][Quality] Improve docs for Security detections and alerts (#5253)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/security/detect-and-alert/custom-query.md

---
applies_to:
  stack: ga all
  serverless:
    security: ga all
products:
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
description: Create rules using KQL or Lucene queries to detect known field values and patterns.
---

# Custom query rules [custom-query-rule-type]

## Overview

> Custom query rules search your {{es}} indices using a KQL or Lucene query and generate an alert whenever one or more documents match. They are the most flexible and widely used rule type in {{elastic-sec}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom query rules search your {{es}} indices using a KQL or Lucene query and generate an alert whenever one or more documents match. 
```

Suggestion: We'd like to move towards ES|QL - might be good to avoid qualifying rules as widely/not widely used? Maybe more a PM call than mine.

**Index patterns or data view**
:   The {{es}} indices or data view the rule queries when searching for events. Index patterns are prepopulated with the indices configured in the [default {{elastic-sec}} indices](/solutions/security/get-started/configure-advanced-settings.md#update-sec-indices) advanced setting. Alternatively, select a data view from the drop-down to use its associated index patterns and [runtime fields](/solutions/security/get-started/create-runtime-fields-in-elastic-security.md).

**Custom query**
:   The KQL or Lucene query that defines the detection logic. Documents matching this query generate alerts. Use the filter bar to add structured filters alongside the query text.

**Saved query** (optional)
:   A {{kib}} saved query to use as the rule's detection logic. When loaded dynamically, the rule inherits changes to the saved query automatically. When loaded as a one-time copy, the query is embedded in the rule and can be edited independently.

**Timeline query** (optional)
:   Import a query from a saved Timeline to use as the rule's detection logic. The imported query populates the **Custom query** field.

**Suppress alerts by** (optional)

> :   Reduce repeated or duplicate alerts by grouping them on one or more fields. For details, refer to [Alert suppression](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/alert-suppression.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Reduce "alert fatigue" by consolidating multiple instances of the same event into a single notification. For details, refer to [Alert suppression](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/alert-suppression.md).
```

Author: Just some minor edits:

```suggestion
:   Reduce alert fatigue by consolidating multiple instances of the same event into a single alert. For details, refer to [Alert suppression](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/alert-suppression.md).
```

| `alert_suppression.missing_fields_strategy` | `"suppress"` | When a suppression field is missing from a document, the event is still suppressed into a single alert. Use `"doNotSuppress"` to create individual alerts for documents missing the field. |

## Custom query field reference [custom-query-fields]

The following settings are specific to custom query rules. For settings shared across all rule types (severity, risk score, schedule, actions, and so on), refer to [Rule settings reference](/solutions/security/detect-and-alert/common-rule-settings.md).

**Index patterns or data view**
:   The {{es}} indices or data view the rule queries when searching for events. Index patterns are prepopulated with the indices configured in the [default {{elastic-sec}} indices](/solutions/security/get-started/configure-advanced-settings.md#update-sec-indices) advanced setting. Alternatively, select a data view from the drop-down to use its associated index patterns and [runtime fields](/solutions/security/get-started/create-runtime-fields-in-elastic-security.md).

**Custom query**

> :   The KQL or Lucene query that defines the main detection logic. Other fields such as filters, exceptions or alert suppression can be used to narrow the scope of the query and define the final query used to search events.

Reviewer 2: Could you please omit alert suppression from here or modify the wording of this "narrow the scope of the query." For clarity, alert suppression does not have an effect on the actual query that is run on the source documents. Alert suppression is enforced after the rule's query is run and before we go to write the alert documents to the alert index.
